The greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall. - Nelson Mandela
Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. - Steve Jobs
If life were predictable it would cease to be life, and be without flavor. - Eleanor Roosevelt
If you look at what you have in life, you'll always have more. If you look at what you don't have in life, you'll never have enough. - Oprah Winfrey
Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Tell me and I forget. Teach me and I remember. Involve me and I learn. - Benjamin Franklin
You will face many defeats in life, but never let yourself be defeated. - Maya Angelou
Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile. - Albert Einstein
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So, throw off the bowlines, sail away from safe harbor, catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore, Dream, Discover. - Mark Twain
The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires. - William Arthur Ward
If you can't communicate and talk to other people and get across your ideas, you're giving up your potential. - Warren Buffet
If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough. - Albert Einstein
A designer knows he or she has achieved perfection, not when there is nothing left to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. - Nolan Haims
Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest. - Mark Twain
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has. - Margaret Mead
I'm sorry, but I don't want to be an emperor. That's not my business. I don't want to rule or conquer anyone. I should like to help everyone if possible; Jew, Gentile, black man, white. We all want to help one another. Human beings are like that. We want to live by each other's happiness, not by each other's misery. We don't want to hate and despise one another. In this world there is room for everyone, and the good earth is rich and can provide for everyone. - Charlie Chaplain
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. - Steve Jobs
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet, death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it, and that is how it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It's life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new. - Steve Jobs
We speak not only to tell other people what we think, but to tell ourselves what we think. Speech is a part of thought. - Oliver Sacks
We may not be able to stop evil in the world, but how we treat one another is entirely up to us. - Barack Obama
The quality of mercy is not straind. It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath. It is twice blest: it blesseth him that gives and him that take - William Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice
I love you the more in that I believe you had liked me for my own sake and for nothing else. - John Keats
Let us sacrifice our today so that our children can have a better tomorrow. - A.P.J. Abdul Kalam
The most difficult thing is the decision to act, the rest is merely tenacity. The fears are paper tigers. You can do anything you decide to do. You can act to change and control your life; and the procedure, the process is its own reward. - Amelia Earhart
Do not mind anything that anyone tells you about anyone else. Judge everyone and everything for yourself. - Henry James
Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad judgment. - Will Rogers
Think in the morning. Act in the noon. Eat in the evening. Sleep in the night. - William Blake
Work like you don't need the money. Love like you've never been hurt. Dance like nobody's watching. - Satchel Paige
If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. - Sun Tzu, The Art of War
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting. - Sun Tzu, The Art of War
There is only one corner of the universe you can be certain of improving, and that's your own self. - Aldous Huxley
Wise men speak because they have something to say; Fools because they have to say something. - Plato
Always remember that you are absolutely unique. Just like everyone else. - Margaret Mead
The World is my country, all mankind are my brethren, and to do good is my religion. - Thomas Paine
The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing. - Socrates
As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them. - John F. Kennedy
Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. - Nelson Mandela
Today you are you! That is truer than true! There is no one alive who is you-er than you! - Dr. Seuss
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. - Edmund Burke
Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant. - Robert Louis Stevenson
It is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light. - Aristotle
Where tillage begins, other arts follow. The farmers therefore are the founders of human civilization. - Daniel Webster
Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. - George Santayana
The haft of the arrow had been feathered with one of the eagle's own plumes. We often give our enemies the means of our own destruction. - Aesop
The unleashed power of the atom has changed everything save our modes of thinking, and we thus drift toward unparalleled catastrophes. - Albert Einstein
If the brain were so simple we could understand it, we would be so simple we couldn't. - Lyall Watson
Wherever we look, the work of the chemist has raised the level of our civilization and has increased the productive capacity of our nation. - Calvin Coolidge
Better is bread with a happy heart than wealth with vexation. - Amenemope
As soon as men decide that all means are permitted to fight an evil, then their good becomes indistinguishable from the evil that they set out to destroy. - Christopher Dawson
Is it a fact - or have I dreamt it - that, by means of electricity, the world of matter has become a great nerve, vibrating thousands of miles in a breathless point of time? - Nathaniel Hawthorne
The day when two army corps can annihilate each other in one second, all civilized nations, it is to be hoped, will recoil from war and discharge their troops. - Alfred Nobel
A horse, a horse! My kingdom for a horse! - William Shakespeare, Richard III
The press is the best instrument for enlightening the mind of man, and improving him as a rational, moral and social being. - Thomas Jefferson
The speed of communication is wondrous to behold. It is also true that speed can multiply the distribution of information that we know to be untrue. - Edward R. Murrow
There never was a good knife made of bad steel. - Benjamin Franklin
And homeless near a thousand homes I stood, and near a thousand tables pined and wanted food. - William Wordsworth
1. A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. 2. A robot must obey any orders given to it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. 3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. - Isaac Asimov
Pale Death beats equally at the poor man's gate and at the palaces of kings. - Horace
Most of us can, as we choose, make of the world either a palace or a prison. - John Lubbock
We only live to discover beauty. All else is a form of waiting. - Kahlil Gibran
Every genuine work of art has as much reason for being as the earth and the sun. - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Time crumbles things; everything grows old and is forgotten under the power of time. - Aristotle
The true test of civilization is, not the census, nor the size of cities, nor the crops - no, but the kind of man the country turns out. - Ralph Waldo Emerson
He who knows others is wise; He who know himself is enlightened. - Lao Tzu
Whoever desires to found a state and give it laws, must start with assuming that all men are bad and ever ready to display their vicious nature, whenever they may find occasion for it. - Niccolo Machiavelli
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king. - Erasmus
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today. - Martin Luther King Jr.
Not everything that counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted counts. - Albert Einstein
